[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: Now I want to
introduce you to a new function.
So this is the first new function in
a while you'll have been introduced to.
We introduced you to map and filter, and
we talked about concatAll
in the presentation.
We learned about concat map
which is just a shorthand for
writing map followed by concatAll.
Now I'm gonna show you
a function called reduce.
What reduce does is it takes an array,
with many,
many items, and
reduces it to an array with one item.
So we're effectively aggregating
up all the values in an array and
producing an array with a single result.
Now I'm gonna call your attention to
something which is that I've actually
mucked with the definition of array.
JavaScript's array definition
is that you process in array and
it returns a single value.
In my definition of array, the array that
you reduce, the reduce that you guys will
be writing actually returns
a single value inside of an array.
Does anybody know why I might do that?
So here's an example of reduce, if I want
to show you why I would use a reduce,
well, the canonical example for
reduce is a sum.
>> Jafar Husain: So here's an example of
using the reduce function to create a sum
of all the items in an array.
So this is a function which takes an
accumulated value and the current value.
This is typically the convention
when you're building a reduce.
And so the very first time I can
also pass in a value to use for
acc the very first time around,
so here I passed in zero.
Now if I was to omit zero,
it would still work and
it would still produce
the exact same thing.
If you don't produce an initial value for
acc, it uses the first item in the array,
does that makes sense?
So what's gonna happen is the very
first time through this function,
acc will be 1 and current will be 2.
And the result of this function will
be the addition of these two things,
which will create, of course,
[LAUGH] my Dad's trying to call me.
Which will create 3, right?
Now the way reduce works is it
feeds the result of the function
back into the function.
And so the next time around, acc,
the accumulated value is 3 and
current is the only remaining item in
the array we haven't processed yet
which is 3 and then the final value is 6.
Now instead of reduce returning 6
it actually returns an array of 6.
So reduce, even though it
always returns a single value,
I wrap it inside of an array in my reduce
function, JavaScript doesn't do this.
Can anybody think of a reason
why I would do this?
I say Javascript's reduce is wrong,
it's a pretty arrogant thing to say.
So why would I say that?
In fact, lots of languages have
the same definition of reduce, and
I think they're all wrong.
>> Speaker 2: Combine two of those, the
answer would just be compatibility, right?
>> Jafar Husain: Compatibility how and
compatibility what?
>> Speaker 2: Did you use
the function calls or whatever?
>> Jafar Husain: Interesting, you mean I
can chain a map function off of this and
chain a filter function,
is that what you're getting at?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Jafar Husain: Cuz if
it returns an array,
I can keep on chaining.
Yes, that is a very good reason why you
should return it inside of an array,
there's an even better one which is,
what's this return?
Anybody want tell me what
they think that returns?
>> Speaker 3: D array?
>> Jafar Husain: Well, in my definition,
yes, but in JavaScript's definition,
where they don't return an array,
they return a value, what would it return?
>> Speaker 3: Undefined.
>> Jafar Husain: Maybe, I'm not sure.
[LAUGH] Let's find out, I'm curious.
>> Speaker 3: Nan.
>> Jafar Husain: Nan, possibly.
>> Jafar Husain: Let's try it out.
I don't remember, it's been a long time.
But I can tell you whatever it
returns is probably not what you want.
>> Jafar Husain: Does returning
undefined make your life easier here?
Probably not.
So let's find out.
>> Jafar Husain: So
this is what JavaScript will return.
It will happily give you, wait,
I've already redefined reducing here.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH] I'll do it.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, let me know.
>> Jafar Husain: So that gives me six, but
what does the same thing give
me when I have an empty array?
Oo, error, that's even less fun, right?
Well, actually it's kind
of understandable, right?
There's really no way to answer the
question of what it reduces over an empty
array, right?
But if we return an array of the final
result, there's a very logical thing for
it to return.
Anybody want to take a guess what that is?
>> Speaker 4: Empty array.
>> Jafar Husain: Empty array.
I suggest this is much
better than an error, right?
And that's effectively
why we should do it.
That's a good enough reason
alone to do it for array.
But now apply reduced to an observable.
If you apply reduce to an observable,
that's an asynchronous collection
that arrives over time.
You can't return a simple value from
a reduce over an observable because you
would have to block, right?
In order to give you this,
right, this is the observable,
the fake observable syntax.
There's absolutely no way
to return this as a single
value because we'd have to block and
wait for the observable to complete and
then and only then can we return it as
a simple value, does that make sense?
Cuz it's a stream that arrives over time.
JavaScript can't just block and
wait for this stream to arrive
before it returns the next value, and
even if it could we shouldn't, right.
We wouldn't wanna keep people from
entering stuff into the UI while we were
waiting for observable to add up.
That's why we return this.
>> Jafar Husain: That's what reduce
returns when you apply it to
an observable.
It returns you an observable that
eventually just completes with
the one result.
Does that makes sense?
Reduce is written in such a way
that it cannot be implemented over
an observable using that definition.
And that's actually a smell,
it's a smell it's because it seems like
reduce is actually doing too much.
People were just abbreviating,
they were like, well,
if this function always returns one value,
why keep it inside of the collection?
Let's just take it out of the collection
cuz it's just one value, right?
That's exactly the type of shortcutting
that works when you're looking at
the array definition.
But when you get down to the mathematics
of it, and you look at the fact that
observable and array can both be expressed
as collections and streams, there's only
one definition of reduce that's general
enough to work for both of them.
And that is for
reduce to return an array of one or
observable in this case to
return an observable of one.
So that's why I'm gonna have you implement
reduce, what I think is the right way,
and then we're gonna use that
reduced definition later on when we
use observable.
So now you guys should have a pretty
good idea of how reduce works, right.
What's interesting about reduce,
when you're trying to figure out what
function should I apply to
solve a problem, right?
Well, if you're doing substitution,
if you've got an array,
and you got stuff inside, and
you want to substitute each item for
another item, what operator was that?
Map, I have an array, I've got items and
I wanna transform each item inside and
sort of substitute it in that
location in the new array, map.
What if I have an array with a bunch
of items and I wanna apply some
test function to each of them and
only keep the ones that pass the test?
>> Speaker 5: Filter.
>> Jafar Husain: Filter, right?
What if I have a two dimensional array and
I wanna flatten it out?
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
>> Jafar Husain: Reduce is for the case
where you need to look at least two
values at the same time to do your job.
Notice that map and
filter have got tunnel vision,
they only look at one item at a time,
but in order to do a sum, for example,
you would need to at least look at two
values at a time to do that job, right?
You couldn't do a sum with a filter
operation or a map operation even, right?
Cuz map can only,
you only have the one value at a time.
So does that makes sense?
So those are the types of tasks
you'll be using reduce for.
So let me jump back to here,
I think, okay, so this is 15,
so we're gonna assume you
guys finished this one.
So our job here is to
find the largest box art.
So aggregation operations,
sums, maximums, minimums,
these are the types of things that you
would use the reduce function for.
So in this case, I'm gonna use for
each for it, and
this is the way you would kind of
approach it if you had a loop.
You'd create a bunch of variables
to store, what's the current size,
what's the largest box art I'm
currently keeping track of.
All right, and then you would for each
over box arts and then we say, okay, well,
what's the current size?
We compute the size.
If the size is larger than the current max
size, then we reset the largest box art
variable to the new box art and
we reset the maximum size to current size.
And by the time the loop is done,
we'll have a largest box art.
This is very similar to the way you guys
have probably written this type of code in
the past, right.
Loop through an array, use a variable to
keep track of your accumulated value.
Well, you can take this exact same
pattern and abstract it into reduce.
Anything where you're doing
this form of aberration,
you can replace it with reduce.
Question?
>> Speaker 2: Would the custom
implementation of reduce always return
an array of one element?
>> Jafar Husain: Yes, cuz reduce
always takes the entire collection and
reduces it to one element.
But by returning it in an array,
we have a logical thing that we can do
if we get an empty array as an input.
We have a logical output that's not so
bad as throwing an error and
we can continue chaining on operators
after the reduce operation.
This is a very common mistake that's made
when stream processing, which is taking
APIs like reduce and having them
return scalars instead of vectors.
So what we're gonna do is
were gonna implement reduce.
Now this is actually
already implemented for us.
We already explained how reduce worked,
right?
There's basically an optional initial
value you can pass for reduce but
let's go over it one last time,
inside a reduce here.
If I write this reduce expression, what
reduce does is the very first time around,
if I haven't specified an initial value,
it just uses the first
value as the initial value.
So that's 1 and then it uses the next
value as the current value and so
that's 2.
And what comes out of this
function is gonna be 3 and
whatever comes out of the reduced function
is gonna be fed back in as the accumulator
the next time around.
So next time around this is gonna be 3 and
this is gonna be the only function,
the only item in the array we
haven't processed yet, which is 3.
And then the final one is gonna be 6, and
then reduce is going to return
an array of 6, and so if we, however,
were to use an initial value,
then it would work like this.
It would start with out with 0 as the
initial value, which is what we pass in
first as the accumulative value, and
then we'd get 1 and then we would get,
predictably, we'd get 1 from the function.
The next time around,
1 would be the accumulated value and 2
would be the current value, cuz now we've
gone here, all right, and then we'd get 3.
Next time around a 3 is the accumulated
value and 3 is the current value.
And we get 6, so we get the same
result regardless of whether we passed
in an initial value of zero or not.
So that's how reduce works,
I won't spend too long looking at
this function because you know it.
That's a pretty straightforward thing,
we're just using a while loop
to do that the expected thing.
But notice that in the end, the key thing
I want to call out is that we make sure to
keep it inside of an array.
Now, I wonder if I've got a bug in here,
I wonder what happens if we have no
items in this collection, right.
So here notice if the length is zero,
we just return the exact same array.
So a zero length the ray,
if you attempt to reduce it,
produces a zero length array.
>> Jafar Husain: So
let's run that, that works.
So now we're gonna use reduce
to find the largest rating.
So we have an array of movie ratings,
and so we're going to call reduce.
And pass in a function which starts
an accumulated value and a current value.
And we're just gonna return
whatever the largest value is.
So we're gonna say if accumulative larger
than current will return the accumulated.
Otherwise, will return the current, and
I believe that's gonna get us the value.
So what reduce is saying is, look,
if the accumulated value is largest,
larger than whatever value
we're looking at right now,
just return whatever was
currently the largest value.
But if the current value happens to
be larger than the accumulated value,
reuse that as the accumulated
value the next time around.
And so if we run this,
it should work, yes, so that works.
Does anybody want to slow down take
a look at that a little bit more or
did we did we get past 17?
Okay.